Migrating from Version 1.8
--------------------------

The "Sappho" release of DTASelect moves it to version 1.9 from version
1.8.  The reason behind the version number change is that the
DTASelect.txt file format has been modified, and the software needs to
be able to know when it is using DTASelect.txt files from earlier
versions.  If you use this release of DTASelect with pre-existing
DTASelect.txt files, you will soon discover that Sp scores and
calculated peptide masses will read as 0.0.  In addition, Contrast
merge will fail.  There are two ways to deal with this.  First, you
can move your existing DTASelect install to a different directory and
add startup scripts for the older versions.  Secondly, you can delete
your existing DTASelect.txt files and create them by running the new
DTASelect.

If you are migrating from an earlier DTASelect, you'll need to rewrite
your DTASelect.ini file.  The distribution includes an example
configuration file, so be sure to move your existing one before
extracting DTASelect 1.9 into that directory.

Acquisition and Installation of Version 1.9
-------------------------------------------

DTASelect can be downloaded at this URL:

http://fields.scripps.edu/DTASelect/20040826-DTASelect-1.9.zip

The password to extract the Zip file is "Sappho" (who was poet in the
6th century BC).

Installation of DTASelect 1.9 is quite similar to installing DTASelect
1.8.  Extract the Zip file containing the Sappho release to the
"C:\DTASelect\" directory on your hard disk.  Copy the DTASelect.bat,
Contrast.bat, and MoreFASTA.bat files to your "C:\Windows" or
"C:\WinNT" direcoty.  Modify the file DTASelect.ini with the
appropriate configuration options (if you need hints on getting the
URLs correct, examine your existing SEQUEST summary pages).

Test that your computer has Java installed: open a command prompt 
(usually Start -> All Programs -> Accessories -> MS-DOS command 
prompt), and type "java". If a help message shows up, Java is 
working on your computer. If you get an error message instead, 
you first need to install Java. You can get a JRE (Java Runtime 
Environment) at http://www.java.com.

When this process is complete, you should be able to execute DTASelect
at the command-line (or "MS-DOS Prompt") by typing "DTASelect" or
"Contrast" and hitting enter.

I'll leave the DTASelect 1.8 manual in place for folks who decide to
stick with the existing version of the software, so be sure to
download the new manual if that is your intent.  Good luck with the
software, and if you have questions, the folks in the Yates Lab stand
ready to help.

David L. Tabb
Daniel Cociorva